## SC4S Demystified

I titled this article 'SC4S Demystified' selfishly due to the fact that it took me years to uncover and eventually understand how great this tool is. My goal with this blog is to help you understand what exactly SC4S is and why you should check this product out.

I was a Syslog admin for three years and most often worked with traditional Syslog infrastructure. Pick your flavor (syslog-ng, rsyslog, etc) and run it across a load balanced server farm. This is common throughout the industry and it worked great for years... tbh, it probably still does for most. 

But, as with anything great, there's a catch. Over time, there are two factors that are putting those traditional architectures at risk.

1. Companies moving to the Cloud and the modernization of infrastructure
2. Geographically dispersed datacenters (cloud and on-premise) 

### The move to the Cloud and Modernization of Infra
I'll dig into each of these and explain why they put the traditional syslog architectures at risk.

Most companies are moving to the Cloud, quickly. The Cloud offers countless benefits and we won't jump into each of these but I think it's safe to say we all can agree on atleast one of these: availability, scalability, reliability, and elasticity. Companies are also modernizing their infrastructure and moving towards a container and serverless application approach.

Being a Linux admin and a Syslog admin, I'll be the first to admit that I used to take pride in caring for a server(s) I own. It's a sterotypical example of the pet vs. cattle concept that DevOps has introduced. If you haven't looked into this concept, I highly recommend it, even if you're in Cyber. But, with the old server approach comes a lot of negatives. Cost is a huge factor, for example, building and maintaining a 4 server farm solely for the reason of the running syslog-ng is extremely expensive. It's tough to nail down exactly what resources are needed and you may find yourself overutilizing, which will cost you or undersizing which will hurt you in terms of performance. Maintenance is also rough. Having to maintain an entire server comes with a lot of responsibility. You are not just responsible for keeping the application updated, you're likely also tasked with patching, OS configurations, networking, etc. Take from this two points: the move to Cloud is likely inevitable and managing traditional servers are a pain in the ass.

### Geographically dispersed datacenters
Chances are, your company has multiple datacenters spread out over a country or countries. This is either due to the fact that you have a high-availability/disaster recovery plan in place (kudos to you, DR teams.), or maybe your company made an acquisition that had a datacenter elsewhere. And if you've already made the jump to Cloud, you're likely in multiple AZ's or regions for the purpose of HA. Following best practice, it is recommended to place the syslog infrastructure as close to the edge and the data sources as possible. It may be difficult or expensive to place farms of servers dedicated to syslog across the globe. 

### Where have you been all my life, SC4S?

This is where I'd like to introduce you to SC4S. To sum up SC4S in a nutshell, this is a containerized package that gives companies prebuilt configurations to seamlessly operate their syslog architecture. Gone are the days of having to manage giant server farms and keep up with an ever-growing configuration file. Also gone are the rising costs of having to maintain and manage those servers.

SC4S is a package that at it's highest level includes a container, inside of the container is the syslog-ng program and the configurations and dependencies needed to run the program and that's it. This tool comes in just about every flavor of container and also has a BYOL option. See the below link for download.

https://splunk.github.io/splunk-connect-for-syslog/main/gettingstarted
